IBX-6346: Enhance "Add CKEditor plugins" (#2109)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/content_management/rich_text/extend_online_editor.md

## Add CKEditor plugins

A CKEditor plugin is installed locally by using `yarn add ` or `npm install`, and is deployed by committing the `yarn.lock` file.

> For example, the local installation of [Special characters plugin](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/special-characters.html):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the local installation of the [Special characters plugin](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/special-characters.html):
```

```bash
yarn add @ckeditor/ckeditor5-special-characters`
```

> CKEditor plugin must be added to the `ibexa.richText.CKEditor.extraPlugins` array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CKEditor plugin must be added to the `ibexa.richText.CKEditor.extraPlugins` array.
```

> For this purpose, create a JavaScript file to import the plugin elements and add them to the array using `ibexa.addConfig`.
> 
> For example, `assets/js/special-characters.js`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this purpose, create an `assets/js/special-characters.js` to import the plugin elements and add them to the array using `ibexa.addConfig` :

```

Author: So, if generic and example are merged, maybe I should use a more generic file name here.

```suggestion
For this purpose, create an `assets/js/richtext.plugins.js` to import the plugin elements and add them to the array using `ibexa.addConfig` :
```
It also has the advantage to be more verbose about its content as assets/js/ would probably host a lot of JS files related to frontend and few about backend.

```js
// The plugin itself
import SpecialCharacters from '../../node_modules/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-special-characters/src/specialcharacters';
// The character list that will be used by the plugin
import SpecialCharactersEssentials from '../../node_modules/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-special-characters/src/specialcharactersessentials';

> ibexa.addConfig('richText.CKEditor.extraPlugins', [ SpecialCharacters, SpecialCharactersEssentials ], true);

Author: I tried more adventurous character list like the following. But I don't see the real interest into using such advanced example.
Based on [Adding a new category](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/special-characters.html#adding-a-new-category) and [Removing categories](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/special-characters.html#removing-categories):

```js
import SpecialCharacters from '../../node_modules/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-special-characters/src/specialcharacters';
import SpecialCharactersArrows from '../../node_modules/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-special-characters/src/specialcharactersarrows';

function SpecialCharactersEmoji( editor ) {
    editor.plugins.get( 'SpecialCharacters' ).addItems( 'Emoji', [
        { title: 'smiley face', character: '😊' },
        { title: 'rocket', character: '🚀' },
        { title: 'wind blowing face', character: '🌬️' },
        { title: 'floppy disk', character: '💾' },
        { title: 'heart', character: '❤️' }
    ], { label: 'Emoticons' } );
}

ibexa.addConfig('richText.CKEditor.extraPlugins', [ SpecialCharacters, SpecialCharactersArrows, SpecialCharactersEmoji, ], true);
```

Reviewer: I guess it will be a usecase for some, that you can specify a manual list, and not only import from existing lists.

Author: Let's keep the doc simple.
Too advanced example also saved in the ticket.

```

> Notice that the plugin is imported from `../../node_modules/@ckeditor` path and not directly from `@ckeditor` alias because this alias points at `./public/bundles/ibexaadminuiassets/vendors/@ckeditor`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The plugin is imported from `../../node_modules/@ckeditor` path and not directly from `@ckeditor` alias because this alias points at `./public/bundles/ibexaadminuiassets/vendors/@ckeditor`.
```

Add the previous file to `ibexa-richtext-onlineeditor-js` Webpack Encore entry.

> For example, create the following `encore/ibexa.richtext.config.manager.js` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create the following `encore/ibexa.richtext.config.manager.js` file:

```

```js
const path = require('path');

module.exports = (ibexaConfig, ibexaConfigManager) => {
    ibexaConfigManager.add({
        ibexaConfig,
        entryName: 'ibexa-richtext-onlineeditor-js',
        newItems: [path.resolve(__dirname, '../assets/js/special-characters.js')],
    });
};
```

See [Importing assets from a bundle](importing_assets_from_bundle.md) for alternative ways to add files to Webpack Encore entries.

Add the plugin button to the RichText toolbar config (under `ibexa.system.<scope>.fieldtypes.ezrichtext.toolbar`).

> For example, a new button group is defined in `config/packages/ibexa_admin_ui.yaml` with [the `specialcharacters` button exposed by the plugin API](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/special-characters.html#common-api):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A new button group is defined in `config/packages/ibexa_admin_ui.yaml` with [the `specialcharacters` button exposed by the plugin API](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/special-characters.html#common-api):

```

```yaml
ibexa:
    # …
    system:
        admin_group:
            # …
            fieldtypes:
                ezrichtext:
                    toolbar:
                        my_group:
                            priority: 25
                            buttons:
                                specialCharacters:
                                    priority: 10
```

> Build the assets and clear the cache. For example, run `composer run-script auto-scripts`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Build the assets and clear the cache by running `composer run-script auto-scripts`.
```

by using the `addConfig` method:

```js
window.ibexa.addConfig('richText.CKEditor.extraConfig', {your_custom_config_object}, true);
```

> For example, to have `Arrows` category from [previously added Special characters plugin](#add-ckeditor-plugins) on [top of the filter menu](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/special-characters.html#ordering-categories):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To have `Arrows` category from [previously added Special characters plugin](#add-ckeditor-plugins) on [top of the filter menu](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/special-characters.html#ordering-categories):
```

```js
ibexa.addConfig('richText.CKEditor.extraConfig', { specialCharacters: { order: ['Arrows'] } }, true);
```

> ![CKEditor Special characters: Arrows categorie on top of character filter](ckeditor-special-characters_arrows-on-top.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![CKEditor Special characters: Arrows category on top of the character filter](ckeditor-special-characters_arrows-on-top.png)
```
